One beautiful spring morning, a merchant loaded his donkey with bags of salt to go to the market, in order to sell the salt. The merchant and his donkey were walking along together. They had not walked far when they reached a river on the way.

Unfortunately, the donkey slipped and fell into the river. As it scrambled up the bank of the river, it noticed that the bags of salt loaded on his back had become lighter.

There was nothing the merchant could do except return home, where he loaded his donkey with more bags of salt. As they reached the slippery riverbank again, the donkey fell into the river, this time deliberately. Thus the salt was wasted again.

By now the merchant knew the donkey’s trick. He wanted to teach the animal a lesson. As he returned home the second time with the donkey, the merchant loaded bags of sponges on its back.

The duo set out on their trip to the market a third time. On reaching the river, the donkey very cleverly fell into the water again. But now, instead of the load becoming lighter, it became heavier.

The merchant laughed at the donkey and said, “You foolish donkey, your trick has been discovered. You should know that you cannot fool anyone too many times.”

Once upon a time, an old man lived with his three sons in a village. The three sons were hard workers. Still, they quarrelled all the time. The old man tried a lot to unite them but he failed. Though the villagers appreciated their hard work and efforts, they made fun of them on their fights.

Months passed by and the old man fell sick. He told his sons to stay united, but they didn’t listen to him. So, he decided to teach them a practical lesson so that they would forget their differences and stay united.

The old man called his sons. He told them, “I will give you a bundle of sticks. Separate each stick and you will have to break each stick into two. The one who breaks the sticks quickly will be rewarded more.”

The sons agreed.

The old man gave a bundle of 10 sticks to each of them and asked them to break each stick into pieces. They broke the sticks into pieces in minutes.

And again they started to quarrel among themselves as to who came first.

The old man said, “Dear sons, the game is not over. Now I will give another bundle of sticks to each of you. You will have to break the sticks as a bundle, not as separate sticks.”

The sons agreed and tried to break the bundle of sticks. Though they tried their best, they could not break the bundle. They failed to complete the task.

The three sons reported their failure to their father.

There were two fishermen who where close pals. They used to catch fish together on weekends. Since they were busy in their personal work and family, they hardly spend time together. It was a Saturday and they decided to drive to a nearby pond to enjoy their day in fishing. Also, they wanted to have some feast with the fish they catch.

Both carried essential utensils, cooking accessories, ingredients and fishing equipments. They reached the pond.

They sat at a distance and started hunting for the fish. The first fisherman got a big and beautiful fish in a few minutes. He was so happy and placed the fish in the ice box to retain the freshness. He decided to cook the fish as a whole fish in the noon. He spent some more time and captured a few more fishes. He decided to make a grand meal with the fish. Also, he froze a few fishes to take it back to home.

It was almost more than an hour they were fishing. He then approached the second fisherman and asked him if he need any help. The second man said no. In a few minutes, the second fisherman captured a large fish. However, he put that back into the lake.

The first man was surprised at his act. He remained silent. The second man captured many big fishes, but he just put back all those fishes into the lake.

Very annoyed by his act, the first fisherman angrily asked him, ‘Are you mad? Why do you put your fishes back into the water? They were beautiful and big!’

The second fisherman replied, ‘I know they were big, but I don’t have the big pan to cook the big fish! So I’m looking for a smaller fish that fits my cooking pan! The god is troubling me today.’

By hearing this, the first fisherman was surprised. He advised the second fisherman to cut the big fish into small pieces to suit in the pan and cook them properly.

Many people are just like the second fisherman. We are provided with handful of big opportunities, chances and even fortune that we many times overlook. We need to work out just the same like the big fish fit into a small pan.

God will always give massive possibilities as well as problems that we can handle effortlessly. Everything given to us is within our means. Tell your problems that you have god with you rather than telling the god that you have problems.

Breaking bundle of sticksThe old man replied, “Dear sons, See! You could easily break the single sticks into pieces, but you were not able to break the bundle! So, if you stay united, nobody can do any harm to you. If you quarrel every time with your brothers, anyone can easily defeat you. I request you to stay united.”

The three sons understood the power of unity and promised their father that whatever be the situation, they would all stay together.

Moral: Unity is Strength!

